Vice President of Education Notes

Pathways Educational Awards
Level 1: Mastering Fundamentals: Completion of the first level projects.
Level 2: Learning Your Style: Completion of the second level projects.
Level 3: Increasing Knowledge: Completion of the third level projects.
Level 4: Building Skills: Completion of the fourth level projects.
Level 5: Demonstrating Expertise: Completion of the fifth level projects.


Distinguished Toastmaster (DTM): The highest educational achievement in Toastmasters. To earn a DTM, a member must complete:

1. Two learning paths in Pathways or one learning path and one traditional educational track.
2. Serve as a club officer for 12 months.
3. Serve as a district officer for one year.
4. Serve as a club mentor or coach.
5. Serve as a club sponsor or conduct a Speechcraft or Youth Leadership Program.
6. Complete the DTM project.


Club Leadership Awards: Given to members who serve as club officers and complete their officer terms successfully.

1. Distinguished: Basic level of achievement (5 out of 10 DCP goals for clubs).
2. Select Distinguished: Higher level of achievement (7 out of 10 DCP goals for clubs).
3. President's Distinguished: Highest level of achievement (9 out of 10 DCP goals for clubs).
4. Smedley Distinguished: Recognizes clubs that add five new, dual, or reinstated members during a specific period.

DIAMOND CLUB
Qualifying
Criteria
❖ President Distinguished on or before 15 May 24
❖ Active membership on 15 May 24 to exceed base membership by atleast one member

Education
and
Training❖ 7 Club Officers attending TLTP in both the cycle (Jul 23 and Jan 24) (top up training is not considered)
❖ 15 unique members to complete a Pathway level by 30 Apr 24
❖ 100% pathway adoption by 30 Apr 24
❖ Conduct two educational sessions from the Successful Club Series or the Leadership Excellence Series or the Better

Speaker Series (excluding Moments of Truth) by 30 Apr 24
❖ One member completing District sponsored Gurukul Program
Contest❖ Conduct both the speech contest as defined by the District (International Speech Contest and Evaluation Contest)
❖ Submit the contest report within 7 days of the contest in the defined format
❖ 3 unique members to serve as Chief Judge and 6 unique members as Voting Judge outside the home club within D98

Administration
❖ Submit Club Success Plan before 31 Aug 23 and 15 Jan 24 to Area Director by email
❖ President and VP Education to attend District Council Meeting twice a year - No proxy allowed
❖ Submit action plan & best practices within 7 days after conducting Moments of Truth to Area Director by email twice
in the program year on or before 30 Apr 24
❖ 7 members to attend Eloquence 24
❖ Minimum 25 membership renewals to be completed in each cycle by 25 Sep 23 and 25 Mar 24

Club Extension
and Retention
❖ Conduct two Open House in the year and add 5 members within 30 days of each open house on or before 30 Apr 24 in
the presence of the respective Area Director/ Division Director and submit report to CGD within 10 days
❖ Achieve Smedley and Talk Up Toastmasters Awards
❖ A non-District Officer to complete ANY ONE of the following
a) Member successfully serving as Sponsor/ Mentor/ Coach as a
